TW-369: added kb for namespace setup considerations (#1953)
temporalio/documentation: kb/temporal-cloud-namespace-setup-considerations.md

- Namespace is an endpoint and requires mTLS authorization to access from the client, requiring CA certificates.
- WorkflowID uniqueness is per namespace.
- Task Queue names are unique per namespace.
- Closed workflow retention is per namespace.
- RBAC permissions are implemented at namespace level.

## General Guidance

Namespace configuration requires some consideration. Below are some general guidelines to consider.

- Namespaces are usually defined per use case. A use case can encompass a broad range of workflow types, and a nearly unlimited scale of concurrent workflow executions.
- Namespaces can be split along additional boundaries such as service, application, domain or even sub-domain.
- Environments such as production and development usually have requirements for isolation. It is recommended that each environment has its own namespace.
- Namespaces should be used to reduce blast radius for mission critical applications.
- Workflows that need to communicate with one another (for now) should be in the same namespace.
- Careful consideration should be taken when sharing namespaces across team or domain boundaries.

## Examples

> Below are some ideas about how to organize namespaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following are some ideas about how to organize Namespaces.
```

> ### Example 1: Namespace per Use Case/Environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example 1: Namespace per use case and environment
```

> A namespace per use case/environment is recommended for simple configurations where multiple services, team or domain boundaries don't exist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend using one Namespace for each use case and environment combination for simple configurations in which multiple services and team or domain boundaries don't exist.
```

Sample naming convention:

<pre>

> &lt;user case>_&lt;environment>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
&lt;use-case>_&lt;environment>
```

</pre>

> ### Example 2: Namespace per Use Case/Service/Environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example 2: Namespace per use case, service, and environment
```

> A namespace per use case/service/environment is recommended when multiple services that are part of same use case, communicate externally to Temporal via API (HTTP/gRPC).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend using one Namespace for each use case, service, and environment combination when multiple services that are part of same use case communicate externally to Temporal via API (HTTP/gRPC).
```

Sample naming convention:

<pre>

> &lt;user case>_&lt;service>_&lt;environment>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
&lt;use-case>_&lt;service>_&lt;environment>
```

</pre>

> ### Example 3: Namespace per Use Case/Domain/Environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example 3: Namespace per use case, domain, and environment
```

> A namespace per use case/domain/environment is recommended when multiple services that are part of the same use case need to communicate with one another, via signals or starting of child workflows. It is very important however, in this case, to be mindful about workflowId uniqueness by prefixing workflowId with a service specific string. If multiple teams are involved the domain could also represent a team boundary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend using one namespace per use case, domain, and environment combination when multiple services that are part of the same use case need to communicate with each another via [Signals](/concepts/what-is-a-signal) or by starting [Child Workflows](/concepts/what-is-a-child-workflow).
In this case, though, you must be mindful about Workflow Id uniqueness by prefixing each Workflow Id with a service-specific string.
If multiple teams are involved, the domain could also represent a team boundary.
```

> A namespace per use case/domain/environment is recommended when multiple services that are part of the same use case need to communicate with one another, via signals or starting of child workflows. It is very important however, in this case, to be mindful about workflowId uniqueness by prefixing workflowId with a service specific string. If multiple teams are involved the domain could also represent a team boundary.

Reviewer 2: > to be mindful about workflowId uniqueness

and task queue names.

Sample naming convention:

<pre>

> &lt;user case>_&lt;domain>_&lt;environment>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
&lt;use-case>_&lt;domain>_&lt;environment>
```

</pre>

Sample workflowId convention:

<pre>

> &lt;service string>_&lt;workflowId>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
&lt;service-string>_&lt;workflow-id>
```

- If you need to share Namespaces across team or domain boundaries, be sure to ensure the uniqueness of Workflow Ids.

## Examples

Following are some ideas about how to organize Namespaces.

### Example 1: Namespace per use case and environment

We recommend using one Namespace for each use case and environment combination for simple configurations in which multiple services and team or domain boundaries don't exist.

Sample naming convention:

<pre>
&lt;use-case>_&lt;environment>
</pre>

### Example 2: Namespace per use case, service, and environment

We recommend using one Namespace for each use case, service, and environment combination when multiple services that are part of same use case communicate externally to Temporal via API (HTTP/gRPC).

Sample naming convention:

<pre>
&lt;use-case>_&lt;service>_&lt;environment>
</pre>

### Example 3: Namespace per use case, domain, and environment

We recommend using one namespace per use case, domain, and environment combination when multiple services that are part of the same use case need to communicate with each another via [Signals](/concepts/what-is-a-signal) or by starting [Child Workflows](/concepts/what-is-a-child-workflow).

> In this case, though, you must be mindful about Workflow Id uniqueness by prefixing each Workflow Id with a service-specific string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, though, you must be mindful about Workflow Id uniqueness by prefixing each Workflow Id with a service-specific string.
The name of each Task Queue must also be unique.
```

---
slug: cloud-namespace-naming-considerations
title: Temporal Cloud Namespace naming considerations
tags:
  - cloud
  - namespaces

> date: 2023-03-10T00:00:00Z

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2023-04-20T00:00:00Z
```

  We recommend that each environment has its own Namespace.
- Namespaces should be used to reduce the "blast radius" for mission-critical applications.
- Workflows that need to communicate with each other should (for now) be in the same Namespace.
- If you need to share Namespaces across team or domain boundaries, be sure to ensure the uniqueness of Workflow Ids.

## Examples

Following are some ideas about how to organize Namespaces.

### Example 1: Namespace per use case and environment

We recommend using one Namespace for each use case and environment combination for simple configurations in which multiple services and team or domain boundaries don't exist.

Sample naming convention:

<pre>
&lt;use-case>_&lt;environment>
</pre>

### Example 2: Namespace per use case, service, and environment

We recommend using one Namespace for each use case, service, and environment combination when multiple services that are part of same use case communicate externally to Temporal via API (HTTP/gRPC).

Sample naming convention:

<pre>
&lt;use-case>_&lt;service>_&lt;environment>
</pre>

### Example 3: Namespace per use case, domain, and environment

> We recommend using one namespace per use case, domain, and environment combination when multiple services that are part of the same use case need to communicate with each another via [Signals](/concepts/what-is-a-signal) or by starting [Child Workflows](/concepts/what-is-a-child-workflow).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend using one namespace per use case, domain, and environment combination when multiple services that are part of the same use case need to communicate with each another via [Signals](/workflows#signal) or by starting [Child Workflows](/workflows#child-workflow).
```
